[Music]
i'm often asked about and sometimes
criticized for
being a religious person the entire day
is full of opportunities
for prayer and mindfulness the notion of
mindfulness is a constant exercise for
jews
and while we may hone our mindfulness
with an awareness of something that we
call god
for some people they use the notion of
the universe at large
or the love that binds us all or a
mystical concept of oneness
so you can be mindful even if you are an
intellectual or philosophically oriented
person i don't feel that my scientist
self is compromised at all by
participating in things like meditation
yoga deep breathing and even prayer do i
have
issues with religion heck yeah do i have
a strong
distaste for the patriarchal flair of
judeo-christianity
yes ma'am do i have concerns that
certain religious beliefs and political
leanings that are in line with those
religious beliefs
might contribute to a world of hate and
destruction rather than one of love and
unity
absolutely i am grateful to the approach
that my religion has taken
to increase mindfulness i'm grateful
that i can connect with this trend in
popular culture
while still having it be completely
consistent with the ancient religion
that is mine for the most part our sense
of what is and is not scientific
itself is a sort of aesthetic judgment
sometimes i ask members of my audience
does this sound like science to you
and the erudite members of my audience
this is in fact enough
to get them to pause and reflect that
what they're listening to could not
possibly be
a legitimate scientific argument and
sometimes i invoke that kind of
aesthetic judgment
going the other way i'm just asking my
audience i'm presenting them with
mri scans showing human brains and brain
damage
and i'm quoting peer-reviewed scientific
articles that are quite difficult to
understand i ask them look
even if you can't understand all the
latin terms that i've just read out to
you
even if you can't really follow this
scientific
argument can't you pick up can't you
pick up on the sense
on the feeling on the aesthetic of this
being legitimate science
that what you're reading here is not a
sales pitch that it's not just a rumor
made up on the internet
it's not something a bunch of hippie
teenagers came up with that's a
marketing ploy to sell purified water
that'll purify your soul
no that this is
somehow in the same sense that you can
tell if someone's
gay or straight you got gaydar somehow
during our lives we develop some
some sense that may not be entirely
rational
of what is and what is not
science the clip i'm about to play for
you
does this sound like science does this
even sound like something
a legitimate historian would ever say
so how does an ancient religion like
judaism
feel relevant in the 21st century well
judaism in its original state was
actually designed
to introduce a concept of mindfulness
you will be shocked to learn that when
she refers to
the original state of judaism she is
referring to
the 1990s and a fad that began in
the united states of america not in
ancient israel
of incorporating bastardized elements of
ancient theravada buddhism
into modern judaism 2 000
years later
but i ask you fundamentally her claim
that the buddhist doctrine of
mindfulness
is the original teaching of judaism
she's not claiming that she can quote
moses
abraham
she's not claiming that she can quote a
much later author like maimonides
no that this is secretly
and mystically the original
teaching of judaism and you know this is
the sort of thing
where you just might suspect that you
could just do a
very brief google search and find out
that this is complete nonsense and
debunk it and in fact find
peer-reviewed articles like the one
quoted on screen here by
people with phds or some degree of
academic respectability
that do indeed establish that yes this
just was a modern american invention
very obviously stolen from buddhism
by people who couldn't even read ancient
scriptural languages of buddhism like
pali and sanskrit you're just
one or two google searches away
and yet why is it that people in the
audience
don't take the moment to do that google
search why is it that they don't stop
to question i think it's because they
didn't take that
first step which may be an aesthetic
judgment
not entirely rational of questioning
is this science is this even history
is she in fact swimming
in the same shark tank with real
and verifiable facts and if not
what am i listening to might it be that
i'm listening to something that's much
more like
a modern fable for me practicing judaism
means committing to
a structure of intention and meaning
which brings my life
mindfulness and purpose how do you
incorporate mindfulness
into your life do you do it as part of a
religious tradition or
separate from a religious tradition what
works for you and what doesn't tell me
in the comments below
like this video if you like it share
this video please subscribe to my
channel
go to grocknation.com for more of my
thoughts on religion
see you next time the situation of
judaism in the 21st century
is peculiar in that its proponents
the people who continue to make excuses
for or propound judaism as a religion in
the modern world
can neither simply defend the ancient
text
as the source of their religion as
something that defines what their
religion is and ought to be
nor can they openly espouse their
religion as something that departs from
freely contradicts the text that it
doesn't rely on
the authority of these ancient texts you
notice here
the portion of the translation
highlighted
in red what do you think could possibly
be
the hebrew term one in the same word in
hebrew
that two different translators rendered
into english
in such a radically incommensurable way
yeah well it would be impossible to
guess
this is in fact part of the fascinating
historical episode
of the biblical god having a wife
a wife called asherah the canaanites
were also polytheistic
of the many gods of the canaanites
worship three in particular are
important to the rest of the story
they are el elyon whose name means
literally
god most high and who is believed to
have been the father of the other gods
ashira el elyon's wife and bell
who is both god of storms and fertility
in the english translation of the bible
the hebrews are presented as choosing
between
the lord baal and ashira how could the
hebrews be such idiots
why wouldn't they worship the one god of
all creation
the picture looks different when the god
you're supposed to be worshipping
is yahweh sabiath which means the god of
the armies
yahweh started as basically the hebrew
version of the greek god ares
no wonder he was obsessed with war and
death in the old testament
that was back when he was still just
their god of war
now the picture made sense like the
ancient greeks
the hebrews had a pantheon of gods they
worshipped at least the gods
yahweh baal and ashira we have
archaeological evidence of the
polytheistic nature of early israelite
culture
and no this controversy doesn't just
involve a few
isolated portions of biblical text asher
is mentioned
at least 40 times in the bible and
believe it or not
new instances are still being discovered
because they're concealed in plain sight
as was this example we were just looking
at where it gets
reinterpreted and misinterpreted in
various bizarre ways because in fact
we do not merely have evidence that
asherah was part of the biblical text we
also
have evidence of the attempts of later
authors
editors and scribes trying to conceal or
minimize the presence of asherah as in
general they were trying to conceal and
minimize the significance of polytheism
throughout the ancient text how can we
sing the songs of yahweh while in a
foreign land
ezekiel a prophet who arose among the
exiled hebrews
expressed how alienated the hebrews had
become he too blamed their plight
on the hebrew people for a lack of
devotion to yahweh
it was then at a time when the hebrew
people seemed most crushed
at a time when it seemed certain that
the cult of yahweh would surely die
it instead did something that religion
has done throughout history in order to
survive
it changed a new author who scholars
call
second isaiah arose and his words were
appended to those of the first isaiah
i am the first and i am the last besides
me
there is no god monotheism was born
from this new monotheistic culture the
priestly source p
arises israelite history is rewritten
once again
exodus is rewritten by p to say that the
el shaddai worshipped by abraham
and the yahweh worshiped by moses were
the same god
any references to el elyon are explained
by p
as merely different names for yahweh the
entire book of leviticus is authored
genesis 1 is crafted as an improved
monotheistic version of the babylonian
account of creation
second isaiah rewrites babylonian myths
that were attributed to marduk
such as his defeat of the dragon thai
man attributing them
instead to yahweh the torah is rebranded
by p to look as if
it had always been monotheistic so when
you recognize that the source text
is in this sense so
fundamentally contestable
that it is so open to interpretation and
that
very few of those interpretations
could be harmless for people in the
modern world
if you make the decision to raise your
children
in the faith of judaism you are handing
them a book
that is a proven track record of being
interpreted
in a dangerous way in a manner that may
devastate
your own children's lives or that may
cause your children to go on to do
terrible things ruining other people's
lives you know
that this book and this religion has
this potential
no matter how pious and postmodern
your personal reinterpretation of the
religion
might be you should recognize that
placing
divine authority and transcendental
significance
in such a text is inherently
irresponsible
dangerous and morally wrong
i just talk about the politicians that
don't do what they got to do
and the powerful people that watch
people suffer and die i want to save
dark-skinned babies
from going to prison and wasting their
lives
[Music]
fit when i'm on some damn [ __ ] i mean
really people like to disrespect my crew
but the fact is that you know my name
and i don't know
you